# favorite-code-sample
One of my favorite code samples

This was a snippet of code I wrote for one of my assignemnts in my Visual Programming class. It is written in C#. I would say this is one of my favorites because I really had to sit down and struggle with the logic, making sure that everything works and that the code can actually determines if the defined string has any palindromes at all or not. The end result was very gratifying. 

It takes a string the user has inputted in the form and checks to see if it has any palindromes. The only characters that are considered are 0-9 and a-z. First the code checks to see if any of the required fields are blank. If the user has filled them out, then the code continues with the process of determining if there are any palindromes. An array of characters is created to determine all the characters that are to be considered. It then makes the whole string lowercase and checks each individual character in the string one by one. If the current character in the string matches with any of the characters mentioned in the array, it jumps out and moves on to the next character in the string. If no matches are found however, the code will eventually jump out of the loop with an int value of 36. If that is the case an "if" statement following the loop will remove the current character. So you are left with a string of lowercase characters that are anything from 0-9 and a-z, but nothing else. 

The code then takes a substring of the length specified by the user and checks the first and laster characters of said substring. If they are the same, it moves on to the next set (the second character and second to last character) and so for and so on. If it gets to the last character (or last set of characters) and they are the same, a palindrome is found and added to the listbox. If, however, any set of characters in this process are not the same, the code will jump out of the loop and move on to the next substring until it eventually reaches the end of the string and finishes executing.
